Module number 19, channel management.
And here we're gonna talk about running
and scaling specifically your channel.
So first thing that I like to do with a lot
of channels is comment analysis, which is audience research.
And a lot of niches, if you know your audience,
you don't really need to do this.
So this isn't something that's required.
But if you notice these things,
sometimes they can raise red flags, right?
So comments, uh, aren't necessarily for you
to get engagement, right?
It doesn't really matter if you get comments or not.
The only reason it would matter is
because if somebody sitting there typing a comment,
it can help your A, b, D, uh,
because you know, they're probably playing the video in the
background, but it's for intelligence gathering.
And what I'm saying is that you can look
for grammar slash language.
So if there's bad grammar and whatnot,
or words missing, maybe you can figure out
that your audience is pretty young.
If it's in a different language, a lot
of the comments aren't in English, then that tells you
where your audience is from.
And this more so doesn't apply to your own niche
because you know, when you have your own niche,
you can just look in your analytics.
But what about when you're looking at a niche
or you're researching a niche,
you can look at their comments
and see the grammar to see kind of estimate what the age is,
look at the languages in the comments, look at
how many comments they're getting.
And this stuff tells you a lot about their RPM, right?
Um, the age is gonna like help determine the RPM,
which is just how much money
you get paid per a thousand views.
And, you know, the,
where these people are located is gonna
determine the RRP m as well.
It's a mixture of pretty much RPM has calculated the
location, the age, and how long the video is,
and how long the A VD is.
Uh, because realistically,
even if you have a 10 hour long video,
if the AVD is one minute, then your RPMs gonna be really low
because the average person isn't really getting through ads.
But at the same time, if your AV D'S bad,
then you're not going to get your video pushed out.
So realistically, we can just say on a generalized basis,
the RRP m's gonna be higher, the longer your video is.
But the best, um, RPM is gonna be from the United States.
The best RPM is going to be from older age people.
So the older the age is, the better the RPM.
And then the longer the video, the higher the RPM, uh,
as well as the topic.
Because the last thing that, that YouTube will,
will take into consideration is
how much the person makes, right?
And they're able to figure that out simply based on the type
of videos that you're making.
Like if, if it's a, let's say you're making videos
specifically, um, shout out Marvin,
but if you're taking videos, making videos specifically
only on, on low credit, which Marvin,
if you're watching this, that's not what you do.
But if, if you're making videos, uh, targeting people
that have like 300 credit scores, right?
And it's like, here's how you can improve your 300 credit
score, even if all your people are from the US
and it's an older audience, your RPM will still be pretty
decent because you have a all us audience, older audience.
But at the same time, YouTube will know, Hey,
these people probably don't have that much money.
And the RPM won't be like crazy high.
It might just be decent, right?
You might expect normally that you'd have a crazy high RRP m
'cause you're in the finance niche, you're in the, you know,
you have older audience
and things like that, but that's not necessarily
How it works. Now, if you're
making a video on like how to trade stocks,
uh, and it's from the US
and you have like an old audience,
then your rrp m's gonna be super high.
And especially if you make that video like two,
three hours long, like if you have like a three hour long
video and a and 99% of your audience is from the US
and they're like ages 40 plus all of your audience,
you could potentially, like, I've seen people have up
to like a hundred dollars RPM on YouTube,
which is absolutely absurd.
And that's not really that common.
I'll be honest, I've had channels in the twenties of dollars
of RPM just because the videos are super long.
And I've seen people who have channels where, uh,
well actually I had a channel where I tested a few videos
that were six hours long,
and those videos ended up getting, I think somewhere
between 35 and $40 RPM.
Now, most niches, they're not gonna be
that high in RPM, right?
Um, so these are just outlier cases that I've seen
and that I've seen in for myself.
But that those are things that can, uh, help with the RRP m
So, you know, with the comments themselves,
like should you respond to them, you know, it's optional.
It doesn't really affect anything.
If you want to, you can,
I don't think it makes any difference at all.
If you're getting negative comments
or hate comments, just don't care.
I mean, this is your income, not a therapy class.
Like if you're making money, nothing
else really matters, right?
So if you're getting hate comments, whatever,
it really, really doesn't matter.
Uh, as for scaling channels,
here's the step-by-step process on
how you would actually go about scaling a channel.
Step one is obviously get your first,
uh, channel profitable.
Because to scale to multiple channels,
I know this is like a, oh,
that sounds like an easy first step.
This isn't, uh, you know, step-by-step process on how to,
how to get your channel profitable.
The step-by-step is, you know, going through this whole, uh,
mentorship, but scaling channels,
like once you already have one, you want more.
So obviously to, uh,
the first step would be having one
channel already making money.
'cause otherwise, why would you be scaling?
That doesn't make sense. So I
wouldn't start channel number two.
I know a few people in the community have started multiple
channels because they have a lot of money they're willing
to spend on this and that.
I've seen it work with a few people, even if they're new,
but for most people, I wouldn't recommend this, right?
Uh, so, you know, number one,
don't start your second channel
until the first channel is monetized and running smoothly.
And what I mean by that is, well, I guess
that takes us into step two,
which is systemized channel number one.
So create SOPs like we talked about, hire editors if needed,
automate with NAN if needed, right?
Channel run should run without you.
So you should just aim to automate channel one
as much as possible.
And like I said in a previous module, even if you end up,
if the channel's making $5,000
and then you know, you're take,
let's say you're taking home $5,000 a month, but then
after fully automating it, you're only taking 3000.
You're pretty much buying back your time.
So that's worth it. So you should be fully automating.
And normally when you fully automate a channel,
it's when you have a whole manager and everything,
and, uh, they're pretty much,
even if you have like a thumbnail artist and an editor
and whatnot, and you're using ai,
the manager's gonna AI
generate the script and stuff for you.
They'll talk to that. They're pretty much doing
what you would normally do, and you're just paying someone
either a percentage of the channel or money.
Normally what I do for a channel manager is,
here's my typical way that I run things.
Uh, I typically pay them, it, it, it depends on the channel.
I figure out how much work it takes,
and depending on how hard the work is,
I pay typically somewhere between $20 to up
to like $40 an hour.
I don't pay them literally hourly.
I just take how long it takes to me to create videos.
And then based on that, depending on how hard the work is,
I typically pay somewhere between 20 to 40 an hour, uh,
for the manager or 10% of the channel,
whichever one's more, right?
So if I'm paying them 30 an hour
and in a month they're making the, let's say, two
and half thousand dollars for this channel, then great.
Let's say the channel's making 10 k,
we pay the manager two and a half thousand.
That's totally fine, because
then you don't have to do anything.
But let's say the channel ends up making 30,000,
then instead of 2,500, I would just pay them 3000
because it's just whichever one is more,
I'm not paying them 10% plus that, that's normally
how I structure it, because you wanna pay them kinda
like a baseline amount.
And then if the channel does exceptionally well, like
what if the channel blows up
and does 200 k, then yeah, I'd pay the manager the 10%,
which would be 20,000, which
that's, you know, that's totally fine.
It sounds like a lot to pay a manager 20,000,
but imagine, you know, you're getting 180,000
and they pretty much ran the channel for you.
So that's pretty much what I do that way.
And a lot of the time I'll also give bonuses.
So if it's kind of in between where,
let's say I'm paying them like $2,500 for the month,
and they'd have to make at least $25,001 for them
to technically make more from the 10%.
If the channel made like 20,000, I might just throw the,
throw them like a, a few hundred extra dollars,
like 500 extra dollars or something.
Because obviously the channel's doing well,
or maybe even a thousand extra dollars.
Like I I, I've totally done that
before where I, uh, I've given like some pretty big bonuses
where sometimes the bonus is more than
how much the channel made that week.
Uh, one thing I would recommend with bonuses though,
is only pay after AdSense has paid you out.
Don't pay based on like estimator revenue,
because sometimes it can change.
So make sure, uh, like pretty much
what I do is I pay every Friday on a weekly basis.
So let's say I'm paying, well make the numbers easy.
Let's say I'm paying 500 a week
after four weeks, that's $2,000.
And then let's say at the end of the month,
the channel made $25,000,
then I'll just send them an extra 500 at the end
of the month once YouTube ends up actually paying me.
Uh, and YouTube pays a month late.
So let's say we're talking about for the month of October,
YouTube's gonna pay me somewhere
between like November 20th, the 25th.
And then, uh, you know, in that timeframe, once one I,
once I receive that money, I'm like, okay,
verified I got the 25,000, then I would send the 500 extra
to them, um, either right then and there
or just in their next payment on that next Friday.
Um, so number three, once you have number two done
and the channel's fully automated, find a new niche, go back
to module number three, find an s plus tier niche,
ideally for channel number two.
And then step four, repeat, same process, right?
Um, it sounds simple,
but a lot of people make it too complicated.
So I kind of need to explain this.
Uh, this is a four step process, which is pretty obvious.
Like once your channel's profitable,
automate then find a new
Niche and repeat the process and just keep doing
that over and over and over again.
Uh, and like I said, I, it sounds simple and that's
because it is, and I feel like people overcomplicate it.
And this ties in with like, do it yourself iis
that I talked about before.
Um, so you know, don't, don't overcomplicate it,
don't force yourself to do everything as for, uh, support
and community in the actual course itself for support.
This is just talking about the community
that you guys are in right now.
And then that's pretty much it for, uh, this module.
This is the last module
that you get if you're not in the inner circle.
So if you made it this far,
keep in mind this isn't the only stuff you get inner circle
guys, I'll make sure at the end of yours,
I also give you some extra advice.
Um, I kind of wanna end this off here
'cause this is the last module for, uh,
anybody who's not in Inner Circle.
So what I want to preface is that,
you know, you have the community.
A lot of people in the community have worked together on
channels and made a lot of money together.
Um, you know, make friends in here.
You're literally surrounded with people
who are exactly in the same position you're in
and want to be where you want to be.
These people are a lot more similar to you than you think.
Uh, make them your friends.
Surround yourself with people that want this as much
as you do because then you'll have a much
easier time to succeed.
So, you know, be active in the community, try
and make friends here, join the weekly q
and a calls, make sure you're taking notes
and try watching this whole thing over.
Pretty much just simply the best advice I can do is you pay
to be here, do everything a Davi and I recommend you
and I guarantee you that's gonna
be your highest chance of success.
You don't do what we recommend you. That's your own choice.
And simply that just means you don't want it enough.
Um, but if you made it this far, I appreciate it so much
for you watching all the way through.
If you're inner circle, I'll see you in the next module.
If not, thank you for watching up until this last module.
Goodbye.